Welcome to this lesson:
Living in a Data-Driven World.
You need no more evidence that we're all living
in a data-driven world than to, oh, sorry.
Let me just accept this, here.
Where was I?
Oh, right.
No more evidence than to just open your browser
and go to virtually any site to experience how,
not only are companies collecting your data
but they're also pushing their,
darn, let me block this.
Really hate those notifications, don't you?
Ugh, anyway.
And what's more,
sometimes the data they want to collect is pretty personal,
and well, you know, doesn't make a whole lot of, ah!
Doesn't make a whole lot of sense. (laughs)
Well, somehow, I'm pretty sure
you all know what I'm talking about.
So, let me cut this intro short
and dive into the topics that we're going to be covering.
So, given that this barrage of data
both coming and going is pretty consistent and growing,
it begs the question, why?
Well, it's because the data has a tremendous amount of value
and we need to talk about that worth.
Then we'll look at the challenges of handling data
in a traditional manner.
You can probably guess the following topic,
can't you, cowpoke?
The advantages of working with data in the cloud.
But it's not all no-holds-barred.
With great data power comes great data responsibility.
Wow, that sounds familiar, doesn't it?
Probably something somebody's uncle said once or something.
So, before I let you go,
I'm going to round up the most important points
for you to take away.
Let's get started before another popup pops up, shall we?
Data is everywhere, but for companies,
it's helpful to arrange it into 3 different groups
to best pinpoint where it comes from.
There is a lot of data generated
from within any organization,
including from the financials,
where all the money is flowing from.
Production, how the services or the products
are actually made.
Logistics, how those resources get tapped
and the final services or products get pushed out.
Quality, are things up to par
or are they lacking a little bit?
And of course, testing,
making sure that everything
is just the way you want it to be.
But your company is very likely
not to be alone in the marketplace.
So, there is industry data waiting for you,
such as benchmarks, comparisons, standards,
and compliance regulations,
and last, but definitely not least, are your customers.
Just a sampling of the available data from them
includes their location,
the frequency that they interact with you,
any direct actions that they may have taken,
and cross-references to other factors and data.
But this data does not come to the company
automatically or easily.
Data exists in a number of formats,
including spreadsheets, documents, images, and videos.
And no matter what format it is in originally,
to be truly useful, it has to be converted to digital data.
For companies still rooted in a traditional infrastructure,
dealing with digital data can bring all sorts of headaches.
Companies find that they have to process
great amounts of data,
and as we've just saw, it's in varying formats.
And processing this data means that your resources
need to be able to scale on demand, both up and down.
And as that data keeps coming in,
you need to store it, retrieve it, and analyze it.
And to really get the most out of it,
you need to make predictions based on the historical
as well as any newly incoming data.
Now, compare that to data in the cloud.
Here, there are a number of real advantages.
First, there is global redundancy
that helps keep the data safe and available.
Moreover, you can scale the resources
to handle the data both vertically,
meaning giving more processing power or RAM to your systems,
or horizontally, meaning you can add more servers.
And the scaling can go both up and down.
Plus, faster processing enables
real-time collection and analysis,
and all of this opens possibilities for advanced analysis
where you compare your multiple datasets,
those 3 we talked about,
internal data, industry data, and user data.
And beyond, that these datasets can be intersecting,
which opens the door to even deeper understanding.
For example, you could find an intersection
between company expenditures in one region
that lead to decreased customer churn in another.
All this availability of data
does have ramifications, though.
As an organization,
you're responsible on a number of different fronts.
First, there are ethical concerns.
Just because you can gather all the data,
that doesn't mean that you should.
Businesses have to be responsible.
You also have to be aware of privacy.
Personal data has to be protected
all the way from collection to storage.
It's important that your company follow regulations.
There are numerous regulations, of course,
which vary all around the world.
And to stay in business,
they have to be followed regarding the use
of the data you have collected.
Moreover, you have to ensure security,
because once the data resides in the cloud,
the organization that collected it
is responsible for protecting it against any threats.
Data is really the fuel
driving the age of digital transformation,
and its proper integration is critical
to a successful cloud implementation.
Here are the most important points
you'll want to keep in mind from this lesson.
Digital data is available at an ever-increasing rate
from 3 different sectors,
internal to the business, from the business's industry,
and from the customer.
Data processing and management made available in the cloud
overcomes many of the disadvantages
of traditional data management,
including storage, analysis, and prediction.
Organizations must maintain responsibility
over the collection and management of data
regarding all ethical, privacy, regulatory,
and security concerns.
Let's move on to the next lesson.